- [Instructor] In this lesson were going to walk
through another pitfall so that you can avoid it
and stay within the good graces of your team.
So, one of the errors you have to be careful
when working with Git is using commands
you might not be familiar with.
One of the most dangerous commands
that you can use is the push command with the force flag.
This can cause you to overwrite commits
and lose some of your work,
and it gets a little bit awkward
when you overwrite your team member's work.
So let's walk through a demonstration
so that you can avoid it.
OK, so in this scenario,
what's going to happen is user two is going
to create a new file called demo2.
They're then going to add that file
to the stage then commit the file.
And then push that file
to the central repository that the team shares.
OK, now at this point,
user one wants to make a change to the demo file.
So they enter vim,
and they're going to add some changes to the demo file.
OK, so those changes are in place,
and now they are going to commit those changes.
And then they're going to attempt
to push them to the central repository.
So what you'll notice is that Git warns them.
It says, hey, there's changes in the central repository
that you don't have locally.
I can't allow you to push.
So user one is a little bit stubborn,
and they say, hey, I'm going to push anyway.
And to do that, I need to use the force flag.
So they throw the force flag on there
and do their push anyway.
So it gets pushed onto the central repository,
and really they have done a lot of damage to the repository.
In fact, as we're gonna see in a minute,
they're going to lose some commits.
So, I have the central repository sitting
a few directories up in a directory called remote,
and within that directory is
the central repository named git-demo.
So we're going to go there,
and then I'm going to use the git ls-tree command
so that we can take a look at that repository
and see what files it contains.
So, you'll notice that it doesn't contain the file
that user two has committed.
And that's because user one's use
of push force has caused us to lose that commit.
So this really just illustrates the danger
of using push with the force flag.
I don't want to discourage you
from exploring different Git commands,
but it's important you don't do them
in your central repository.
Always work on your own kinda local copy of a repository
or in a safe repository when experimenting
with new commands.